# rix 0.17.4 (2026-01-)

- Fix evaluation warning: ‘system’ has been renamed to/replaced by
  ‘stdenv.hostPlatform.system’`](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/how-to-fix-evaluation-warning-system-has-been-renamed-to-replaced-by-stdenv-hostplatform-system/72120)
  (https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/570)

- `setup_cachix()`: is now the recommended primary approach for configuring the
  `rstats-on-nix` binary cache. Documentation updated with one-liner commands
  to add yourself to `trusted-users` on Linux and macOS. Also added NixOS
  instructions for declarative configuration via `configuration.nix` or Home
  Manager. This approach works for both standard Nix and Determinate Nix
  installations.

- `rix()`: Python QoL improvements:
  - If `"uv"` is in `system_pkgs`, `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` is automatically configured
    in the shell hook for dynamic library loading (required by packages like
    numpy that load shared libraries at runtime).
  - New `py_src_dir` element in `py_conf` for Python package development. Set
    this to your package's source directory (e.g., `"src"` or `"mypackage/src"`)
    to add `PYTHONPATH` to the shell hook, enabling editable-install-like
    behavior in Nix shells.


# rix 0.17.3 (2025-09-30)

- Fix for issues #544

# rix 0.17.2 (2025-09-11)

- Changed the matrix channel url that was causing a NOTE and added a final
  newline to `nix.conf` generated by `rix::setup_cachix()`.

# rix 0.17.1 (2025-09-04)

- `rix()`: Support for Julia is not experimental anymore.

# rix 0.17.0 (2025-05-21)

- `rix()`: added support for the Julia programming language. This
  support is experimental. To add Julia and Julia package to the environment
  use the `jl_conf` argument.

# rix 0.16.1 (2025-05-02)

- `rix()`: If `{rmarkdown}` is added to list of R packages,
  `pandoc` and `which` are automatically added to list of system packages.

# rix 0.16.0 (2025-04-24)

- `rix()`: If Python packages get added but not `{reticulate}`, the user
  now gets warned. The `RETICULATE_PYTHON` environment variable also
  gets set.
  (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/482)

- `rix()`: Github packages with subdirs can now be installed
  (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/473)

# rix 0.15.9 (2025-04-21)

- `rix()`: choosing `code` or `codium` previously installed `vscode-fhs` and
  `codium-fhs` from `nixpkgs` however these are not available on macOS. Instead
  now, `vscode` and `codium` are installed which works across platforms.
  (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/issues/465#issuecomment-2791032363)

- `rix()`: `py_pkgs` argument renamed to `py_conf`.

# rix 0.15.8 (2025-03-25)

- `rix()`: deals with remotes defined as `github::repo/package` and
  `gitlab::repo/package`
  (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/issues/458)

# rix 0.15.7 (2025-03-17)

- `rix()`: added a new argument, called `py_pkgs` for easy installation of
  Pyhon packages.
  (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/453)

# rix 0.15.6 (2025-03-12)

- `rix()`: expressions now expose the shell so it can be used by other expressions.
  This is mainly useful for `{rixpress}`
  (see https://github.com/b-rodrigues/rixpress)
- `nix_build()`: gets an additional argument, `args` which is passed down to `nix-build`


# rix 0.15.5 (2025-03-01)

- `rix()`: Handing of remote dependencies is now more efficient thanks to caching
  (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/424)
- `tar_nix_ga()`: package that are not required to run code on GitHub ACtions (IDEs
  and `{languageserver}`) are now removed
- Air is used for formatting the package (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/434)

# rix 0.15.4 (2025-02-28)

- `rix()`: RStudio is now available for macOS as of R version 4.4.3 or as of
  date 2025-02-28.

# rix 0.15.3 (2025-02-28)

- `rix()`: cannot generate expressions that contain remote packages without Nix
  being locally installed anymore. Previously, when Nix was not available, a remote
  server was being used to compute the hash but this is now being decommissioned.

# rix 0.15.2 (2025-02-15)

- `rix()`: duplicate entries were not correctly being removed, this is now fixed.

# rix 0.15.1 (2025-02-14)

- `rix()`: a new internal post-processing function is introduced to remove remaining
  duplicate entries when generating an expression with recursive remote dependencies
  (See https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/419)
  Remote dependencies that point to a branch or pull request are now correctly
  ignored (see https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/420)

# rix 0.15.0 (2025-02-11)

- `rix()`: IDEs are now handled more consistently: if the user sets `ide = ` to one
  of the available options, that IDE gets also installed by Nix. If instead users
  wish to use an IDE they have installed on their machine already, they have to set
  `ide =` to `"none"`. The `"other"` option has been deprecated. (see
  https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/411)


# rix 0.14.7 (2025-02-05)

- `rix()`: remote dependencies of remote packages are now better handled,
  `rix()` attempts to use a commit hash instead of `HEAD` (see
  https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/389)
- `rix()`: dependencies now also get pulled from `NAMESPACE` files
  for remote packages that don't correctly list them all in `DESCRIPTION` (see
  https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/398)
- `rix_init()`: better handling of VS Code as an editor (see
  https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/399)

# rix 0.14.6 (2025-01-21)

- `rix()`: fixed a bug where local packages were not being handled correctly

# rix 0.14.5 (2025-01-21)

- `rix()`: remote of remote dependencies could sometimes be defined twice in
  generated `default.nix`. This is now solved (see
  https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/388)

# rix 0.14.4 (2025-01-21)

- `renv2nix()`: it is now possible to override a date instead of an R version.

# rix 0.14.3 (2025-01-08)

- `rix()`: packages hosted on GitHub which have dependencies also hosted on GitHub
  are correctly handled.

# rix 0.14.2 (2025-01-01)

- `rix()`: it is now possible to generate expressions pointing to the development
  version of R and Bioconductor by using `rix(r_ver = "r-devel")`
  and `rix(r_ver = "r-devel-bioc-devel)`.

# rix 0.14.1 (2025-01-01)

- `rix()`: it is now possible to generate expressions pointing to the development
  version of Bioconductor by using `rix(r_ver = "bioc-devel")`.

# rix 0.14.0 (2024-12-31)

- This is a major release of `{rix}`:
  * We have forked the Nixpkgs GitHub repository to include more R packages in
  Nix, and have backported many fixes, which should improve the user experience
  on Apple Silicon devices.
  * We also set up a binary cache on Cachix (many thanks to Cachix for
  sponsoring the cache!) so now packages get pulled from the official binary
  cache, as well as from the `rstats-on-nix` cache. This greatly decreases build
  times.
  * `rix()` now includes a `date` argument, allowing users to build environments
  as of a date. Around 4 to 6 dates for each year that is supported are
  provided, starting from 2019. Check out available dates using the
  `available_dates()` function. Read the *c - Using rix to build project
  specific environments* vignette for more details. Should you want a specific
  date that is not available, feel free to open an issue requesting it.
  * `rix()` now only includes R versions 3.5.3 (released on March 2019) and up.
  Earlier versions were complicated to get working on macOS and we assume it is
  unlikely that many people would need earlier versions. Should that be the case
  however, feel free to open an issue requesting it.

  Many thanks to [mihem](https://github.com/mihem) for helping with testing this
  major release of `{rix}`!

# rix 0.13.5 (2024-12-03)

- `rix()`: now correctly handles packages with several DESCRIPTION files, such as
   `{basilisk}`, thanks to [mihem](https://github.com/mihem)

# rix 0.13.4 (2024-11-20)

- `rix()`: now correctly handles packages with no dependencies, thanks to
   [jrosell](https://github.com/jrosell)

# rix 0.13.3 (2024-11-20)

- `rix()`: Clearer error message when providing an R version that is too recent

# rix 0.13.2 (2024-11-20)

- `renv2nix()`: switch from RemoteType to RemoteHost in `renv.lock` files to
  detect packages to be added from GitHub or Gitlab

# rix 0.13.1 (2024-11-19)

- `renv2nix()`: added new argument, `override_r_ver`, to manually set R version
    in generated Nix expression. This deals with situations where an `renv.lock`
    lists a version of R that is not (yet) included in nixpkgs.

# rix 0.13.0 (2024-11-18)

- `renv2nix()`: converts `renv.lock` file into a `default.nix` expression. For
  now, only the R version is matched, not package versions.
  Thanks to [RichardJActon](https://github.com/RichardJActon) for implementing.

# rix 0.12.4 (2024-09-27)

- `rix_init()`, `rix()`: previous attempt at fixing bug was only partially
  correct, it is now fixed. Several more tests were added to avoid this in the
  future.

# rix 0.12.3 (2024-09-26)

## Bug fixes

- `rix_init()`, `rix()`: fix bug in `rix_init()`, that led to empty `.Rprofile`
  files.

## Chores

- Update `inst/extdata/default.nix`

# rix 0.12.2 (2024-09-25)

## Chores

- Update the url in the hex logo
- Update shipped `inst/extdata/default.nix` with this patch release of {rix}
- Remove duplicate `NEWS` entries in 0.12.1 released previously, which is the
  first CRAN release version.
- Added reference to Dolstra (2006) in the `DESCRIPTION` (forgotten in
  first CRAN release 0.12.1)

# rix 0.12.1 (2024-09-25)

## User-facing changes

- `rix()`: The is no default argument in `project_path` anymore. Before, it
  defaulted to the current directory, which violated CRAN policy to have any
  default path in writing functions.

## Chores

- Adhere to CRAN policies, resubmit with changes according to CRAN comments:
  - `DESCRIPTION`:
    - No package name in title field
    - Write 'Nix' in single quotes (software name)
    - Description text: Add more details about package functionality and
    implemented methods.
    - Added reference describing 'Nix'
  - All vignettes and tests now write to `tempdir()` instead of the user
    directory

# rix 0.12.0 (2024-09-20)

## Bug fixes

- Fix roxygen2 check note.

## Chores

- Prepare for first CRAN submission! Polish the README.

# rix 0.11.2 (2024-09-20)

## Bug fixes

- fix `R CMD check` and `R CMD build` when running them in a `nix-shell --pure`
  development environment based on the `default.nix` of {rix} package root.
  Use manually controlled Nix expression from `r_ver = "latest"` pinned source.

# rix 0.11.1 (2024-09-20)

## Bug fixes

- `rix::rix()`: Clean detrius files/folders in temporary folders that are not
  needed. Also fixes failing vignette builds in `R CMD build` (including helpers
  `rix::rix_init()`, `rix:::hash_url()`) by properly handling file connections,
  closing them on exit, and unlink temporary file folders. (#308)
- `nix_build()`: Fix SIGINT termination (ctrl+c) for linux, so that all the
  `nix-build` background processes are properly stopped when the user interupts
  the build process.

## Development services

- `rix::rix()`: when hashing Git provider packages (e.g., GitHub) remotely via
  the https://git2nixsha.dev API, https protocol is now used (previously http).
  Hashing via this service is done when Nix is not installed or when requested
  via option.

## Chores

- Update top-level `default.nix` for {rix} development environment. 
- Remove `pre-commit` config because it does not play well with Nix
  (R-tooling/package inst based on {renv})
- Make `R CMD check` pass without `NOTE` because of file artefacts when running
  vignettes and doing tests (`tests/testthat/test-rix.R`)
- Polish lint and styling actions″LC_ALL = "en_US.UTF-8"

# rix 0.11.0 (2024-09-12)

- Gitlab packages can now be installed as well

# rix 0.10.0 (2024-09-12)

`{rix}` is now an rOpenSci package!

- Transfer to rOpenSci: updated more links
- Transfer to rOpenSci: added reviewers to DESCRIPTION
- Transfer to rOpenSci: update link in DESCRIPTION
- Transfer to rOpenSci: added link to CoC
- Transfer to rOpenSci: fixed links

# rix 0.9.1 (2024-07-30)

- Fix directory creation in `with_nix()`, using `recursive = TRUE` in
  `dir.create()`

# rix 0.9.0 (2024-07-22)

## User-facing changes

- `rix::rix()`: It is not necessary anymore to provide the `branch_name` list
  element for R packages from GitHub in `git_pkgs`.

## Bug fixes

- `rix::rix()`:
  - error when `ide = "rstudio"` and no additional R packages are
  chosen. In the situation, the `rStudioWrapper` approach does not work and the
  resulting Nix expression would not build. The returned error states to either
  add `rstudio` to `system_pkgs`, or add R packages in `r_pkgs` or `git_pkgs`.

## Chores

- GitHub Actions: we now use rhub2 for checking the package
- `rix::rix()` docs: explain `options(rix.sri_hash)`.
- Source code now follows tidyverse style guide thanks to `{styler}`
- Readme: added section explain comparing {rix} and Nix to other package
  managers


# rix 0.8.0 (2024-07-02)

## New features

- `rix()`:
  - Added possibility to install local archives via `local_r_pkgs` argument.
  - Compute hash of git and CRAN archive packages locally if nix is installed.
    There also a new `options(rix.sri_hash="API_server")`, so that online
    hashing via http://git2nixsha.dev can be requested even when Nix is 
    installed locally.

## User-facing changes

- `rix()`:
  - Now runs `rix_init()` to ensure runtime purity via `.Rprofile`. 
    This will exclude the system's user library from `.libPaths()`, so that the
    search path will only contain a path each per package in the Nix store.
  - New `message_type` option to control signalling what is done.
- `nix_build()`, `with_nix()`: stabilize API; get rid of `exec_mode` in core functions. In most cases, "non-blocking" system calls are being run for system commands like `nix-shell` or `nix-build`.
- `rix_init()`, `nix_build()`, and `with_nix()`: gain a 
  `message_type = "quiet"`, which suppresses messages. Further, messaging is 
  standardized via internal helpers called.

## Chores

- Fine-tune formatting of *.nix files generated
- low-level requests with {curl} -> remove {httr} dependency
- ROpenSci review: complete documentation of internal functions
- remove `nix_file` interface for `with_nix()`
- document 


# rix 0.7.1 (2024-05-24)

- Better messages of comments on top of the generated `default.nix` files.

# rix 0.7.0 (2024-05-21)

- Added the possibility to create "bleeding-edge" and "frozen-edge" environments
- Added the possibility to use *radian* as the environment's console (courtesy of [kupac](https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/161)) and *RStudio server*
- Added `ga_cachix()`, a function to create a GA workflow file that builds and pushes an environment to a Cachix cache


# rix 0.6.0.9000 (2024-05-05)

- `with_nix()`: do not use `--vanilla` because it does not respect custom code startup via `.Rprofile`
- `nix_build()` and `with_nix()`: improvements. Remove `nix-build` artefact file by using `Sys.which()` for checking availability. `with_nix()`: clean all itermediary and output artefacts (files) on exit
- Patch `rix()` with `shell_hook = NULL` default, Nix-R wrappers `nix_build()` and `with_nix()`; update testfiles
- `with_nix()`: try `sessionInfo()`; fails under R Nixpkgs on darwin
- Do not remove `R_LIBS_USER` from .libPaths() in covr test environment
- `nix_build()` & `with_nix()`: fix segmentation fault with adjusting `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` temporarily 
- `nix_build()`: consistently separate cmd and args for `nix-build` system command
- `nix_build()`: another guardrail for run-time purity of Nixpkgs R
- implement `nix_file` to specify specific `.nix` file
- Make `nix_shell()` and `with_nix()` compatible with RStudio on macOS, where the R session is not (yet) started from a shell. Now `/nix/var/nix/profiles/default/bin` is added to the `PATH` variable after `nix_shell()` or `with_nix()` are called from an RStudio version of the system (not as Nix package).
- Add `rix::init()` to initiate and maintain an isolated, project-specific and pure R setup via Nix
- update with `glibcLocales` patch
-`with_nix()` needs patch for R <= 4.2.0; `glibcLocalesUtf8` -> `gibcLocales`
- Implement `with_nix()` to valuate function in R or shell command via `nix-shell` environment
- Added `tar_nix_ga()`, a function to run targets pipelines on GitHub Actions using a Nix expression


# rix 0.6.0 (2024-02-02)

## New features

- `with_nix()`: evaluate and return R functions or shell commands in Nix env:
  - added `nix_file` argument as alternative to `project_path`. Specify `*.nix`
    fle defining the Nix software environment in which you want to run `expr`.
  - `macOS`: made it compatible with system's RStudio version on macOS, where
    the R session can not (yet) be started from a shell when launched from Dock. 
    Now `/nix/var/nix/profiles/default/bin` is added to the `PATH` variable
    while `with_nix()` are called.
    
- `nix_build()` -- invoke `nix-build` from R:
  - `macOS`: made it compatible with system's RStudio version on macOS, where
    the R session can not (yet) be started from a shell when launched from Dock. 
    Now `/nix/var/nix/profiles/default/bin` is added to the `PATH` variable
    while `with_nix()` are called.

- `rix_init()` -- create an isolated, project-specific, and runtime-pure R setup via Nix
  - added `nix_file` argument to specify a specific `.nix` file

## User facing changes

- `rix()` -- Generate a Nix expressions that build reproducible development
  environments:
  - `shell_hook = NULL` becomes the new default; before it was 
    `= "R --vanilla"`. The new default ensures that `with_nix()` applied on
    a specific `project_path` directory containing a custom `.Rprofile` file
    that was generated with `rix_init()`, together with a `default.nix`
    expression file, can read that profile file to effectively enforce run-time
    pure R libraries (only from Nix store).

## Bug fixes

- `nix_build()` -- invoke `nix-build` from R:
  - avoided empty file artefact when checking for presence of `nix-build` binary.
    The internal helper now uses `Sys.which("nix-build")` for checking
    availability on `PATH` in the R session.
  - added another guardrail for run-time purity of Nixpkgs R by removing the 
    `R_LIBS_USER` path from `.libPaths()`.

- `with_nix()` -- evaluate and return R functions or shell commands in Nix env:
  - Now cleans all itermediary and output artefacts (files) written in Nix
    shell (`nix-shell`) session environment when exiting. These file artefacts
    are now written in a subdirectory `with_nix` under `tempdir()` of the 
    current R session and all files are deleted. Now, when an `expr` errors
    in a Nix shell evaluation (i.e. custom R function), but had a previous
    successful run with a different `expr` and/or R global environment state
    with success and `_out.Rds` produced, the current session fails to bring
    this output into the current R session.
  - The code run the Nix-R session defined by `project_path`, now attemps to
    record `sessionInfo()` with `try`. We found failures of that command under
    older R versions on Nixpkgs for macOS (i.e., aarch64-darwin).
  - Fix segmentation faults in tests by temporarily setting `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`.
  - Patched the import of `glibcLocalesUtf8` with `gibcLocales` (imports all
    locales). This was necessary to support Nixpkgs R versions <= 4.2.0, where
    `glibcLocalsUtf8` derivation was not yet available. We do not sacrifice
    reproducibility but rather have larger total sizes of derivations involved
    in the subshell (around 200MB extra).

## Quality and unit testing

- added test suite of 17 unit tests using {testthat}
- Add GitHub actions runners on the repository that use system's R or Nix R
  environments configured with Nix.
  
## Internal refactoring

- `nix_build()`: consistently separate `cmd` and `args` for `nix-build` system


# rix 0.5.1.9000 (2024-01-17)

- Added `rix::init()` to initialize and maintain an isolated, project-specific,
  and pure R setup via Nix. It accomplishes this by writing a custom `.Rprofile`
  that guarantees R packages can only be attached from Nix paths, preventing
  unnoticed loading from the system's R user library (`R_LIBS_USER` and ensuring
  runtime purity regarding packages and linked libraries). Additionally, it
  appends `/nix/var/nix/profiles/default/bin` to the `PATH`. Currently, this
  modification only takes effect in the current R session and not in new R
  sessions for RStudio on MacOS. This is because the default R session is not
  started from a shell. The `PATH` will be modified by RStudio when starting the
  R session, effectively after loading the local `.Rprofile`. Future versions
  of RStudio will hopefully respect all environmental variables from a shell
  environment.


# rix 0.5.1 (2024-01-16)

## Bug fixes

- `rix::rix()`: patch for nixpkgs revisions corresponding to R (`r_ver`)
  <= 4.2.0; `nix-build` failed because attribute `glibcLocalesUtf8` was
  not found. Fixed by importing `gibcLocales`. Thanks @motorlearner for 
  reporting.


# rix 0.5.0 (2024-01-07)

## Features

- Added `with_nix()`, which can evaluate a function in R or shell command via
  `nix-shell` environment, and return the output into the current R session.
  This works for both evaluating R code from a nix-R session within an other
  nix-R session, or also from a host R session (i.e., on macOS or linux) within
  a specific nix-R session. This feature is useful to test dependencies and
  specific setups of software in controlled environments.

- Added `tar_nix_ga()`, a function to run targets pipelines on GitHub Actions
  using a Nix expression.


# rix 0.4.1 (2023-10-06)

## Bug fixes

- `rix::rix()`: fix missing `pkgs.mkShell` when `shell_hook = NULL`.
  Both `shell_hook = ""` and `shell_hook = NULL` are now producing valid nix
  expressions.


# rix 0.4.0 (2023-09-26)

## Features

- `rix::rix()` now defaults to `"en_US.UTF-8"` for the relevant locale
  variables (`LANG`, `LC_ALL`, `LC_TIME`, `LC_MONETARY`, `LC_PAPER`,
  `LC_MEASUREMENT`) and sets these environment variables in 
  the Nix shell. These will be correctly propagated into the Nix R session.
  Users can modify the locale setting via 
  `options(rix.nix_locale_variables = list(LANG = "de_CH.UTF-8", <...>)`, e.g.,
  but it needs to be an UTF-8 locale. This is because we only import the
  `glibcLocalesUtf8` subset, to not keep the size reasonable.

## Bug fixes

- fix locale warnings when starting R in linux, which uses glibc (closes 
  [#50](https://github.com/ropensci/rix/issues/50)). Now, we use
  `glibcLocalesUtf8` from Nix for "x86_64-linux".


# rix 0.3.1 (2023-09-11)

## Chore

- Remove boilerplate code for `rix::rix(tex_pkgs = NULL)`


# rix 0.3.0 (2023-09-10)

- Added support for installing TeX Live packages via new `rix::rix()` argument `tex_pkgs`.

## Chore

- update `inst/extdata/default.nix` so that it installs {rix} v0.3.0.


# rix 0.2.1.9002 (2023-09-02)

- `nix_build()` now supports `--max_jobs` flag of `nix-build` via `options(rix.nix_build_max_jobs = <integer>)`. Custom settings of this option can be useful for leveraging full I/O latency or efficient builds on shared memory multiprocessing systems.


# rix 0.2.1.9001 (2023-08-29)

- Include `nix_build()` in interactive use vignette (#68).


# rix 0.2.1.9000 (2023-08-29)

## Chore

- Fix internal `create_default_nix()` so that `project_path` is directory name.
- Updated `inst/extdata/default.nix` to latest commit of {rix} prior bumping.


# rix 0.2.1 (2023-08-26)

## Bug fixes

- Patch `rix()` to allow empty `r_pkgs` (##67).
- Patch `rix()` to do bug-free calling of `rix_build()` within default nix
  shell.

## Chore

- New internal helper `create_default_nix()` to bootstrap 
  `./inst/extdata/default.nix`


# rix 0.2.0 (2023-08-25)

## New features

- Updated Nix historical revision data to include R version 4.3.1.
- Provision a new `shell_hook` arg for `rix::rix()`, which will create a `shellHook` entry in `default.nix`.

## Bug fixes

- `inst/extdata/default.nix`: use `R --vanilla` in shellHook to not propagate user-specific `.Renviron` and `.Rprofile`. Fixes #56


# rix 0.1.2 (2023-08-14)

## Bug fixes

- Patch `inst/exdata/default.nix` so that `LOCALE_ARCHIVE` shellHook that was set to 
  glibc locale does not fail on MacOS anymore 
  ([#40](https://github.com/ropensci/rix/issues/48); fixed with [37f7ab8](https://github.com/ropensci/rix/commit/37f7ab84e5423721bdf05e41816dbc99353481e7)).
- `nix_build()`: fix defensive check so the error message is referring to `project_path`
  instead of `nix_file`. The patch does not change correct behavior of `nix_build()`, 
  hence it is only of cosmetic nature.


# rix 0.1.1 (2023-08-11)

## Bug fixes

- `nix_build()` now correctly checks presence of `nix-build`. ([4be69b2](https://github.com/ropensci/rix/commit/4be69b2c438276a1f636f3b407a124555bb12c9b))


# rix 0.1.0 (2023-08-11)

## New features

- Added `nix_build()` helper that runs `nix-build` interactively from R. 
  ([#22](https://github.com/ropensci/rix/pull/22))
- `rix()` now supports installing packages from GitHub and the CRAN archives.
- `rix()` now supports using a `nixpkgs` revision instead of an R version 
  for reproducibility
- Generated `default.nix` files now also include the call that was made to 
  generate them as top-level comment.

## Changes

- The `path` argument of `rix()` changed to `project_path`.

# rix 0.0.9999

- Basic functionality added.
